Before we start coding our jet tip app, that's why I decided to name it.
Let's look at the structure of this application, so it's always a good idea to look at the overall
structure that we are going to implement because it will give us an idea or a map on how to navigate,
how to navigate all the components, all of the functions in this case, composable functions that we
need to put together in order to have a full app.
So if you look at this app here, this is the screenshot of the app that we're going to be building.
You notice that we have at the top a few sections, right?
So we have the top section.
This is where this is, where we're going to calculate the total per person.
So to calculate the overall calculation of how much money each person will have to pay or just a person
if there's only one person paying the bill?
OK, and then we have an overall bottom area.
This actually includes a lot of things, includes other pieces of user interface.
Mainly, we have here a text field, so users are going to be able to enter something, right?
In this case, enter a bill.
And then at the bottom, we have the split section, which contains a button, actually two buttons.
One is to add more people.
So how many ways we are going to split this by?
And the other one is to reduce or discriminate the amount of people.
And then we have this other area, which is the total tip.
This is where we're going to display the total amount of the tip.
OK.
And then we have the tip percentage area.
This is connected to the tip slider.
So as we slide left and right, the tip percentage area is going to change accordingly.
So these are the moving parts, as I like to call them, as we build this app again, thinking in those
terms, it will always help you because you will know what pieces that need to be built and then assemble
all together.
So we have a full application.
All right, so let's go ahead and get going.
So I went ahead and created a new project, as you can see here, I named it Jet Tip app.
Go ahead and do that yourself.
You should be able to do that.
Right.
So nothing really new here.
What we have is the grading Android app we've seen before.
We can go to split mode here.
I'm going to close this down and you should see the same thing we've seen before, which is just a representation
which suggests we which will just said Hello, Android.
OK.
So while that loads, we can just go ahead and start thinking about what we want to do.
So we are going to start with putting together this top part here, which is the total per person.
Let's think about how do we put this structure together?
You can see it should be some sort of a card which will have rounded corners.
All right.
So we can start thinking about, OK, what structure we need now.
We can use a surface, we can use a card, we can use whatever we want and remember, we can always
use modifiers to modify the way this function behaves in this case, the way this card will look like.
OK, so that's good, at least to start thinking about things.
OK, so let's go ahead and see how can you put a structure like this?
Now, the other thing you will notice is that because we are putting pieces together, the UI pieces
together, we don't necessarily need it to run on an emulator.
This is why we have the preview.
OK?
That's why we have it, and that's why we use it.
So what we can do, we can leverage that because sometimes having to run each time on the emulator can
take times, can take a lot of time.
And also we just want to create these pieces and then put them together, you know, in a bigger container,
which is going to be our main user interface, the whole screen.
OK, so whichever you prefer, you can do it.
But I like this way.
OK, so this seems to have worked.
This is just what comes with this project boilerplate.
What are you going to do here?
As you know, we're going to just get rid of all of these because we don't need them.
I'm going to get rid of the call there and of course, get rid of that.
OK, so there it is.
So the next concept here, we said we want to put together this structure here, but let's strike.
Let's go ahead and structure the app per se.
There are different ways to structure an app, but I'm going to show you one that's very helpful.
You see here that we have a set content.
In fact, this is a laminar trailing lambda, which means we can pass yet another composable.
In this case, that type app theme, which was created by Android Studio, right?
And then we passed our surface, our famous surface, and we pass a background color.
So what we can do, we can extract everything.
Inside of said content somewhere else and then call that function that compose or function inside here.
This will just decouple even further the pieces that we want to put together in our app.
So there's this concept called container functions in the compose.
So this again makes things a little bit more flexible and easier to deal with each composable.
How does that work?
Well, let's let's hover over the chat tip app to hover over like this.
This is an example of a container function because it gives you this flexibility.
You can see it is a compose or function that we can pass another compose function as a parameter.
And if you have over again, you can see because this content here, it is indeed a function called
inside of this function, and it expects a composable which is exactly what you want to do.
That's a that's a container function, expects a composable because this is the last parameter is pass
inside of a function.
That means then we can.
Use a lambda trailing Lambda A.S..
So this is the concept we're going to do.
So here I'm going to say something like this at composable such and then I'm going to say function,
I'm going to call this my app.
So this is the entry point.
My app.
And then I'm going to do the same thing as we have seen.
If you, however, call this content and pass the composable function.
Now you get named whatever you want, of course, but content seems to make more sense.
And then I'm going to say at composable like this, this tells the compiler that this expects a composable
function and this composable function is going to return unity, which means really nothing.
And then we go, take all of this and put inside here.
OK.
And I can say something like tax just before you see hello again.
All right, so now I can call this my component or my app record and see my app like this, and here
I can pass whatever I want.
In fact, I can just remove all of this and just pass here.
Text.
Hello again, Angela Concede follows this same convention as all of these other container functions.
So content here is whatever we get a passing inside hearing, which means we just passing a Texas hello
again.
They refresh this.
Actually, I would have to call at the bottom here.
My app and passive text that says hello again.
All right, let's refresh because we didn't have my app.
You know our default preview.
So now I can take all of this.
Even the jet tip apt theme, which in return, it's also a container function.
I can just cut all of this and put inside here.
And now what we do instead of our content here, because we know it's a composable that it's expected,
I'm just going to say content as such, call our content like this now inside of us that content.
All I have to do is say my app and pass, for instance, one text to be our content.
Let's say hello again.
Of course, this is not going to work because inside of our chat app theme here, I need to go ahead
and call my content.
Or my app, I should say, and pass text that says.
Hello again.
Let's go ahead and refresh quick.
And you can see it says hello again.
So nothing really crazy that's happening here.
It's just that we're restructuring everything they can see.
It's real easy because everything we want to pass in the content here as a composable we can just put
inside of my app.
You can put whatever we want.
In fact, you can put as many functions, call as many composable functions as you want inside here.
It makes things much, much easier because all you will see in our set content, it's going to be my
app only end whatever we call it here.
It's way better than cramming everything together and saying, OK, so this is just something to keep
in mind.
And I would really suggest you think in those terms pass in this case, a container function which allows
you to pass another composable.
OK.
And then of course, called the contents.
But this is what's been called or what's been passed inside of our my app in this case, inside of the
trailing lambda.
Right.
So let's get rid of all of this.
In fact, we could keep it there for now.
And it said content is fine.
OK, now let's start working on this structure.
All right.
So at the bottom here, I can start structuring a few things.
Let me call this top entity here.
I'm going to start with that composable such going to be a function.
Let's call this top her section.
OK.
And we are composing things right now, so I'm going to pass a preview real quick so we can look at
it and see.
You can see it started to show there, but there's nothing in there, so there's really not much to
do or to see.
OK, so let's create then this card like structure again.
What do you do?
We could use card, but I'm going to go straight with a surface and with this surface.
There we go.
And instead of the surface here, this is where we're going to add all of the contents that we see there.
Now we can see that we should have another structure, right?
Because all of these items so total per person text and there's no text there that shows the amount
of total amount that is, they are laid out vertically, which means one after the other.
So what structure or what layout should we use in turn?
What layout should we use inside here?
Right, Colum.
So I'm just going to go ahead and add a column real quick here and work on their column like this.
Okay, so inside of our surface, of course, notice sometimes Android Studio may give us the entire
path.
Right?
We can just delete that.
That's not needed.
So that's fine.
And so here we're going to first pass a modified implicit modifier modifier.
Good friend.
And I'm going to say dad can put it into a new line.
I'm going to say Phil Max with Mike because I want to make sure this takes the entire space and then
I'm going to say Dad Phil.
Max with such.
And we say that Phil Max, with such, I want to continue.
Looks like something is not right.
Let's go back.
Sometimes the imports are not correct.
Let's get rid of that import.
Let's get rid of this import and see if we can import a few things, OK, this modified here.
Now let's go ahead.
All option and haha.
Let's get the modifier compose modify.
This is very important.
Good lesson.
Sometimes when you see that were red lines or red functions being called, that means we are getting
old.
We've imported that modifier in that class from a different package, right?
So we won't look at the.
We want the modifier in the face from Android acts that compose that UI make it like that.
And you can see now we have to also import that field max width.
All right, there we go.
So back in business here.
OK, so next we are going to give it a height of this structure.
And I want to say 150 dot dpi.
And we need to import every right.
And without a modifier, we can continue because remember, we want to make sure that this structure
has this rounded, as you see here, rounded corners.
Well, we can continue.
I can say that again, this is still invoking modifier functions.
I'm going to say clip clip allows us as the name applied to clip into a certain shape.
If you hover over sage shape, content would be clipped to this shape.
I'm going to pass a shape.
What shape do you want to go to take shape such?
And I'm going to say I want to circle now.
I have a few options here.
I can say rounded corner shape like this.
And inside here, I'm going to pass the corner size.
So it's going to be a corner.
Size object.
Pass, I should say.
And here we can pass.
Let's say I want this to be about 12 that dpi around the entire shape what this does.
Well, actually, let's go ahead and refresh this real quick to see what will happen.
And all right, there we go.
You can see we have the shape we want.
It looks very similar to those, of course, the colors different, but at least we accomplished what
we wanted, right?
And it said that there are different ways to do this.
I'll show you another way.
OK.
This is the beauty of compose is that it gives us these many possibilities of doing the same things.
I'm going to say clip again and for shape here I can see something like this.
I can say circle shape and I can see Dot Copy to say I'm going to further customize this shape, Scobee.
So essentially, we're creating essentially overwriting a few of the circle shape, a few parameters,
a few fields of a circle shape here.
And I can then specify what is that I want.
I can say all to say, I want all of the corner sizes to be one.
Size then have to pass a corner size function and then pass in this case, 12 feet deep.
If you refresh again, you won't see any difference really, because it's going to be.
All the same, you just that we use a different way of doing the same thing.
You see no change.
It's all the same.
Make this their size.
And there you have it.
All right, very good.
So either way, works fine.
I sometimes I use around the corner or just circle shape and then pass the copy to say I want to override
certain properties of our circle shape.
So before you go to the next video, I want you to figure out a way to change this color.
This background color of our top hat here.
So to have some color like this, OK, something similar, at least.